README.md, before:

# enphase-proxy
An application for proxying requests to a local Enphase Envoy system. This implements the new authentication mechanism that version D7.x.x enforces.

## Development

This library uses [Python Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) for builds, tests, and deployment. Once you've installed Poetry you can install this project's dependencies with this command:

```
poetry install
```

Assuming that you have set up your environment as described later in this document, you can test the application by running this command:

```
poetry run python3 -m enphase_proxy
```

Still assuming that your environment is configured, an alternative way to run this is with `gunicorn`, like this:

```
poetry run gunicorn \
    --chdir=src \
    --worker-class=uvicorn.workers.UvicornWorker \
    --bind=127.0.0.1:8080 \
    --log-config=configurations/logging.conf \
    enphase_proxy.asgi:app
```

Still a third way to run this program is with Docker, like this:

```
docker build -t enphase_proxy .

# using the login mechanism
docker run --rm \
    -p 8080:8080 \
    -e ENPHASE_LOCAL_API_URL=$ENPHASE_LOCAL_API_URL \
    -e ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_USERNAME=$ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_USERNAME \
    -e ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_PASSWORD=$ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_PASSWORD \
    -e ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_SERIALNO=$ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_SERIALNO \
    -e ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_URL=$ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_URL \
    enphase_proxy --bind=:8080 \
    --log-config=configurations/logging.conf \
    --worker-class=uvicorn.workers.UvicornWorker

# or using an existing token
docker run --rm \
    -p 8080:8080 \
    -e ENPHASE_LOCAL_API_URL=$ENPHASE_LOCAL_API_URL \
    -e ENPHASE_LOCAL_API_JWT=ENPHASE_LOCAL_API_JWT \
    enphase_proxy --bind=:8080 \
    --log-config=configurations/logging.conf \
    --worker-class=uvicorn.workers.UvicornWorker
```

## Configuration

Before you run the application you need to either (1) modify or create a configuration file in the `src/configurations` directory using the example or (2) add these environment variables to your development environment using something like direnv:

### `ENVIRONMENT`

The name of the "environment" to use. Roughly this defines which configuration file to use in the `src/configurations` directory. That is, if you set this to `development` then the proxy will load `development.conf`.

### `ENPHASE_LOCAL_API_URL`

The full URL to your local Enphase Envoy. This might be something like `https://192.168.1.200/` or `https://envoy.local/`.

### `ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_USERNAME`

The username that you use when you log in to [the Enphase portal](http://enlighten.enphaseenergy.com). This is going to be an email address.

### `ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_PASSWORD`

The username that you use when you log in to [the Enphase portal](http://enlighten.enphaseenergy.com).

### `ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_SERIALNO`

The serial number of your Enphase Envoy. You can find this within the Enphase portal on the "Devices" page and will be called "Gateway" or "IQ Gateway".

### `ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_URL`

The URL to use for programmatically logging in to the Enphase portal. This should probably be `https://enlighten.enphaseenergy.com/`.

### `ENPHASE_LOCAL_API_JWT`

If you set all of the environment variables defined above the `enphase-proxy` will, at startup and then periodically thereafter, hit the Enphase Enlighten system and get a new JWT. If you're testing then you might worry that you may be blocked. If you have to get a valid JWT on hand then set it here and the `enphase-proxy` tool will never hit the cloud. Since the JWTs (currently) are set with six _month_ lifetimes, this is pretty safe to do for a time period. If this environment variable is set then all of the `ENPHASE_REMOTE_` environment variables are ignored.

## Manually Getting the JWT

Above it is mentioned that you can hardcode a JWT to avoid hitting the Enphase Enlighten API. How do you do that?

First, get this information:

```
export ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_USERNAME=your-enphase.com-username@whatever.com
export ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_PASSWORD=your-enphase.com-password
export ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_SERIALNO=your-enphase-envoy-serial-number
```

Second, run this command to get a valid session id:

```
curl https://enlighten.enphaseenergy.com/login/login.json \
   -d "user[email]=${ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_USERNAME}&user[password]=${ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_PASSWORD}" \
   | jq -r '.session_id'
```

Third, put the session id that you got from the previous command into this command and run this to get the JWT:

```
curl "https://enlighten.enphaseenergy.com/entrez-auth-token?serial_num=${ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_SERIALNO}" \
  -H "cookie: _enlighten_4_session=XXXXXyour-session-idXXXXXX" \
  | jq -r '.token'
```

Once you have the JWT in hand you can run queries like this:

```
curl -k -H "Authorization: Bearer XXXyour-jwt-tokenXXX" https://envoy.local/production.json
```

Of course, the Enphase folks have not published any of this. All of this information was gleaned off of various forums -- mostly HomeAssistant forums. It may change and break at any time.

## Trademarks

Enphase(R), Envoy(R) are trademarks of Enphase Energy(R).

All trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

Any trademarks used in this project are used in a purely descriptive manner and to state compatability.

Commit message:

replacing gunicorn with hypercorn
I'm tired of waiting for this fix to be released and the I'm tired of the gunicorn author saying "oh yeah any day now" for nearly two years. https://github.com/benoitc/gunicorn/pull/2581

README.md, after:

# enphase-proxy
An application for proxying requests to a local Enphase Envoy system. This implements the new authentication mechanism that version D7.x.x enforces.

## Development

This library uses [Python Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) for builds, tests, and deployment. Once you've installed Poetry you can install this project's dependencies with this command:

```
poetry install
```

Assuming that you have set up your environment as described later in this document, you can test the application by running this command:

```
poetry run python3 -m enphase_proxy
```

Still assuming that your environment is configured, an alternative way to run this is with `hypercorn`, like this:

```
cd src/
poetry run hypercorn \
    --bind=127.0.0.1:8080 \
    --access-logfile=- \
    --error-logfile=- \
    --worker-class=uvloop \
    enphase_proxy.asgi:app
```

Still a third way to run this program is with Docker, like this:

```
docker build -t enphase_proxy .

# using the login mechanism
docker run --rm \
    -p 8080:8080 \
    -e ENPHASE_LOCAL_API_URL=$ENPHASE_LOCAL_API_URL \
    -e ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_USERNAME=$ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_USERNAME \
    -e ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_PASSWORD=$ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_PASSWORD \
    -e ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_SERIALNO=$ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_SERIALNO \
    -e ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_URL=$ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_URL \
    enphase_proxy \
    --bind=:8080 \
    --access-logfile=- \
    --error-logfile=- \
    --worker-class=uvloop

# or using an existing token
docker run --rm \
    -p 8080:8080 \
    -e ENPHASE_LOCAL_API_URL=$ENPHASE_LOCAL_API_URL \
    -e ENPHASE_LOCAL_API_JWT=$ENPHASE_LOCAL_API_JWT \
    enphase_proxy \
    --bind=:8080 \
    --access-logfile=- \
    --error-logfile=- \
    --worker-class=uvloop
```

## Configuration

Before you run the application you need to either (1) modify or create a configuration file in the `src/configurations` directory using the example or (2) add these environment variables to your development environment using something like direnv:

### `ENVIRONMENT`

The name of the "environment" to use. Roughly this defines which configuration file to use in the `src/configurations` directory. That is, if you set this to `development` then the proxy will load `development.conf`.

### `ENPHASE_LOCAL_API_URL`

The full URL to your local Enphase Envoy. This might be something like `https://192.168.1.200/` or `https://envoy.local/`.

### `ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_USERNAME`

The username that you use when you log in to [the Enphase portal](http://enlighten.enphaseenergy.com). This is going to be an email address.

### `ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_PASSWORD`

The username that you use when you log in to [the Enphase portal](http://enlighten.enphaseenergy.com).

### `ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_SERIALNO`

The serial number of your Enphase Envoy. You can find this within the Enphase portal on the "Devices" page and will be called "Gateway" or "IQ Gateway".

### `ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_URL`

The URL to use for programmatically logging in to the Enphase portal. This should probably be `https://enlighten.enphaseenergy.com/`.

### `ENPHASE_LOCAL_API_JWT`

If you set all the environment variables defined above the `enphase-proxy` will, at startup and then periodically thereafter, hit the Enphase Enlighten system and get a new JWT. If you're testing then you might worry that you may be blocked. If you have to get a valid JWT on hand then set it here and the `enphase-proxy` tool will never hit the cloud. Since the JWTs (currently) are set with six _month_ lifetimes, this is pretty safe to do for a time period. If this environment variable is set then all of the `ENPHASE_REMOTE_` environment variables are ignored.

## Manually Getting the JWT

Above it is mentioned that you can hardcode a JWT to avoid hitting the Enphase Enlighten API. How do you do that?

First, get this information:

```
export ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_USERNAME=your-enphase.com-username@whatever.com
export ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_PASSWORD=your-enphase.com-password
export ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_SERIALNO=your-enphase-envoy-serial-number
```

Second, run this command to get a valid session id:

```
curl https://enlighten.enphaseenergy.com/login/login.json \
   -d "user[email]=${ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_USERNAME}&user[password]=${ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_PASSWORD}" \
   | jq -r '.session_id'
```

Third, put the session id that you got from the previous command into this command and run this to get the JWT:

```
curl "https://enlighten.enphaseenergy.com/entrez-auth-token?serial_num=${ENPHASE_REMOTE_API_SERIALNO}" \
  -H "cookie: _enlighten_4_session=XXXXXyour-session-idXXXXXX" \
  | jq -r '.token'
```

Once you have the JWT in hand you can run queries like this:

```
curl -k -H "Authorization: Bearer XXXyour-jwt-tokenXXX" https://envoy.local/production.json
```

Of course, the Enphase folks have not published any of this. All of this information was gleaned off of various forums -- mostly HomeAssistant forums. It may change and break at any time.

## Trademarks

Enphase(R), Envoy(R) are trademarks of Enphase Energy(R).

All trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

Any trademarks used in this project are used in a purely descriptive manner and to state compatability.
